
                Empress of Austria and Queen of Hungary




                               Chapter I
                          The Diamond Wedding


On the ninth of September, 1888, an unusual event occurred in the
princely house of Wittelsbach. Maximilian Joseph, the head of the ducal
line of Vorpfalz-Zweibrücken-Birkenfeld, and his wife Ludovica (Louise),
daughter of King Maximilian First of Bavaria and his second wife,
Caroline of Baden, celebrated on that day their diamond wedding, both
bride and groom having been barely twenty years old at the time of their
marriage.

Few princely couples have been closely connected with so many of the
reigning families of Europe. Their eldest son, Ludwig Wilhelm, renounced
the succession to wed an actress, Henrietta Mendel, who had received the
title of Countess Wallersee. Helene, the eldest daughter, married the
Hereditary Prince of Thurn and Taxis, and their daughter Louise, by her
alliance with Frederick of Hohenzollern, formed new ties between the
Wittelsbachs and the royal house of Prussia. The next daughter was
Elizabeth of Austria-Hungary, whose son in his turn took for his bride
the King of Belgium’s daughter, Stephanie. After Elizabeth, in the
family, came Karl Theodore, well known as an oculist, and, on his
father’s death, the head of the ducal line of Wittelsbach. He first
married his cousin Sophie, daughter of King John of Saxony; the second
and present wife is Marie Josepha, Princess of Portugal. Two other
daughters, Marie and Mathilde, allied themselves with the younger branch
of the Bourbons. Marie became the wife of King Francis Second of Naples
and Mathilde married his half-brother, Count Louis of Trani. The
youngest daughter, Sophie, was betrothed at one time to her cousin, King
Ludwig Second of Bavaria, but afterwards married Duke Ferdinand
d’Alençon, nephew of Louis Philippe of France, while the youngest son,
Max Emanuel, married Amélie of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, thereby becoming
connected by marriage with Prince Ferdinand of Bulgaria.

